Wendy you know how to quit your full time job to pursue your freelance business full time.
It's one of the most challenging things to decide as a freelancer.
This chart a downloadable resource is a rough guide in helping you plot out when you might make that
important decision.
You will notice in this chart that the point where you switch to full time freelance and perhaps even
quit your job comes before you exceeded your current monthly income from your non freelance job or salary.
This may surprise a lot of people as most people think you should wait until you replace your salary
at your current income to move into full time freelancing.
This is not always the case.
As sometimes devoting your full time energy into your freelance business is what can help propel it
to that higher month over month income growth rate this chart also encourages you not to quit your main
income source or salary job until you reach a point of consistency month over month growth in your business.
Consistency is having average growth that exceeds a certain point for at least four to six months in
a row.
This makes sure your freelance business will have that can constant growth and income before jumping
all in remember growth in your freelance business is not always a continual upward growth curve.
There could be down months or months of decelerated growth and this is normal but overall a good sign
is seeing several months of consistent month over month income growth.
So the first stage is the exploration stage and you'll notice slow growth month over month.
You're exploring and testing the possibilities of this being a profitable business and you're also seeking
out clients.
The next stage is the high growth stage and this is where your month over month income enters double
digit growth.
For example 10 percent month over month growth for at least four to six consecutive months.
You may have a month where it dips and changes but over a few month time span your average growth rate
remains high.
This is usually the point where you can achieve several months of steady growth proving your freelance
business's potential for long term sustained growth.
You'll notice the inflection point here and this is the point where you notice an upward month over
month growth or improvement in earnings that jumps more than any prior months.
And this is when you start to enter into that high growth stage after being in the high growth stage
for several months.
Some people it takes a couple of years you'll have this proof of growth which is kind of your green
light to quit your job and after achieving four to six months of consistent average double digit growth
you could explore the possibility of quitting your job that's no longer desired are setting aside what
is taking time that could otherwise be spent growing your freelance business then we have salary replacement.
This is the point in the income growth chart where you have your first month of freelance income that
replaces your old job or salary income.
The orange line indicates replacing your salary plus any benefits like retirement you receive in addition
to your salary and then there's the flat growth stage.
This is a natural flattening out of the monthly income growth curve.
And this is very common to see flat growth in income.
After an intense growth stage.
You could see a boost of income yet again after this black growth stage or continuation of flat earnings
with some slight dips that can occur what you're really looking for here is a moment where quitting
your salary job can give you the time and focus needed to boost that consistent growing business that
has proven itself with income.
There is no perfect time to go full time but I think this is a rough guide for starting to think about
where that moment may fall for you.
So the next logical question is how many hours should I work every day.
Let's talk about the time commitment you should expect when moving from part time to full time obviously
when working a full time job you can only commit evening or off hours to the business at max you might
be able to do three to four hours during the beginning growth stage of your business once you make a
commitment to go full time and let go of your other work job responsibilities.
You now have a full eight hour day to commit to growing your client base and growing your income.
There is a tendency to exceed that standard eight hour day when your income starts to increase.
It is normal psychological response to invest more time into something that's working or becoming successful.
When you go past that nine hour daily time commitment you start to reach an unhealthy level of daily
work time and naturally after your business reaches a certain growth point and client base residual
income and our client referrals will allow you to spend less time on finding new work clients and giving
you the chance to actually bring your daily time or hourly commitment down below eight hours and perhaps
even less than your previous job as you have more control over your productivity.
Remember you are the most valuable asset to your freelance business and making sure you take care of
yourself by not overworking is important.
Make sure to take regular breaks and take a look at your productivity.
Are there activities you can do to help you streamline your time so you're spending less and less time
doing those repetitive tasks.